Adds two more Learn PWA modules (#6926)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/learn/pwa/service-workers/index.md

---
title: Service workers
description: >

>   Service workers are a fundamental part of a PWA and they allow capabilities such as fast loading regardless of the network, offline access, push notifications, and more.

Author: I'm not sure this now makes sense.

What about: "Service workers are a fundamental part of a PWA. They enable fast loading (regardless of the network), offline access, push notifications, and other capabilities."

>   Service workers are a fundamental part of a PWA and they allow capabilities such as fast loading regardless of the network, offline access, push notifications, and more.

Reviewer: Bingo! Go with that.

authors:
  - firt
date: 2021-12-03
---

Users expect apps to start on slow or flaky network connections, or even when offline.
They expect the content they've most recently interacted with, such as media tracks or tickets and itineraries, to be available and usable.
When a request isn't possible, they expect to be told there's trouble instead of silently failing or crashing. And users wish to do it all quickly, as we can see in this study [Milliseconds make millions](/milliseconds-make-millions/), even a 0.1 second improvement in load times can improve conversion by up to 10%. In summary: users expect PWAs to be reliable and that's why we have service workers.

## Hello service workers

{% Img src="image/RK2djpBgopg9kzCyJbUSjhEGmnw1/iKWO7c2WNobLt30VZx9C.png",
alt="A service worker as a middleware proxy, running device-side, between your PWA and servers, including your server and cross-domain servers.", width="800", height="354" %}

> When a request covered by the service worker's scope is made, including when a user is offline, the service worker intercepts the request, acting as a network proxy. It can then decide if it should serve the resource from the cache via the Cache Storage API, from the network as normally would happen without a service worker, or synthesize it from a local algorithm. Because of this, you can provide a similar experience to platform apps, including working entirely offline!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a request covered by the service worker's scope is made, including when a user is offline, the service worker intercepts the request, acting as a network proxy. It can then decide if it should serve the resource from the cache via the Cache Storage API, from the network as normally would happen without a service worker, or create it from a local algorithm. Because of this, you can provide a similar experience to platform apps, including working entirely offline!
```

> When an app requests a resource covered by the service worker's scope, including when a user is offline, the service worker intercepts the request, acting as a network proxy. It can then decide if it should serve the resource from the cache via the Cache Storage API, from the network as normally would happen without a service worker, or synthesize it from a local algorithm. This lets you provide a similar experience to that provided by a platform app. It can even work entirely off line.

Author: ```suggestion
When an app requests a resource covered by the service worker's scope, including when a user is offline, the service worker intercepts the request, acting as a network proxy. It can then decide if it should serve the resource from the cache via the Cache Storage API, from the network as normally would happen without a service worker, or create it from a local algorithm. This lets you provide a similar experience to that provided by a platform app. It can even work entirely off line.
```

{% endAside %}

### Verify if a service worker is registered

To verify if a service worker is registered, use developer tools in your favorite browser.

Using DevTools on Chromium-based browsers, such as Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, or Samsung Internet, and also on Firefox:

1. In the **Application** category, in the left pane, select **Service Workers**
1. Check that the service worker's script URL appears with the status "Activated"(You'll learn what this status means in the lifecycle section in this chapter). On Firefox the status that is shown could be "Running" or "Stopped"

In Safari:

1. Open the **Develop** menu
1. Open the **Service Workers** submenu
1. Check that an entry in the submenu appears with your current origin that opens an inspector over the service worker's context

<figure>
{% Img src="image/RK2djpBgopg9kzCyJbUSjhEGmnw1/QMsYbKeQ6OJSm0FeqFxG.png", alt="Service Worker developer tools on Chrome, Firefox and Safari.", width="800", height="296" %}
  <figcaption>Service Worker developer tools on Chrome, Firefox and Safari.</figcaption>
</figure>

{% Aside %}

> You can remotely inspect a phone or tablet from your desktop browser when you want to check service worker registration status over a mobile device. You will see details on how to do that in the [Tools and Debug chapter](/tools-and-debug)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can remotely inspect a phone or tablet from your desktop browser when you want to check service worker registration status over a mobile device. You will see details on how to do that in the [Tools and Debug chapter](/learn/pwa/tools-and-debug)
```

> {% endAside %}

Author: This is broader than the existing Chrome information I believe, though it's not written yet. However I'll ensure it links to rather than duplicates content. I think there is place for different styles of learning (otherwise there would only ever be one article on a subject).

You can listen for events in the service worker's global scope using the `self` object.

{% Label %}serviceworker.js{% endLabel %}

```js
// This code executes in its own worker or thread
self.addEventListener("install", event => {
   console.log("Service worker installed");
});
self.addEventListener("activate", event => {
   console.log("Service worker activated");
});
```

### Updating a service worker

Service workers get updated when the browser detects that the service worker currently controlling the client and the live (from your server) version of the same file are byte-different.

{% Aside 'warning' %}
When updating your service worker, do so without renaming it, including adding file hashes to the filename. Otherwise, the browser will never get the new version of your service worker!
{% endAside %}

After a successful installation, the new service worker will wait to activate until the existing (old) service worker no longer controls any clients. This state is called "waiting", and it's how the browser ensures that only one version of your service worker is running at a time.

> Refreshing a page or reopening the PWA won't have the new service worker take effect. You need to close or navigate away from all tabs and windows using the current service worker and then navigate back for the new service worker to take control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refreshing a page or reopening the PWA won't make the new service worker take control. The user needs to close or navigate away from all tabs and windows using the current service worker and then navigate back. Only then will the new service worker to take control.
```

Visit this [service worker lifecycle article](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/primers/service-workers/lifecycle) for more information.

## Service worker lifespan

> Once installed and registered, a service worker can manage all network requests within its scope. It runs on its  own thread, with activation and termination controlled by the browser. This lets it work even before or after your PWA is open! While service workers run on their own thread, there is no guarantee that in-memory state will persist between runs of a service worker, so make sure anything you want to reuse on each run is available either in IndexedDB or some other persistent storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed and registered, a service worker can manage all network requests within its scope. It runs on its  own thread, with activation and termination controlled by the browser. This lets it work even before or after your PWA is open. While service workers run on their own thread, there is no guarantee that in-memory state will persist between runs of a service worker, so make sure anything you want to reuse on each run is available either in IndexedDB or some other persistent storage.
```

If not already running, a service worker will start whenever a network request in its scope is asked for, or when a triggering event, like periodic background sync or a push message, is received.

Service workers don't live indefinitely. While exact timings differ between browsers, service workers will be terminated if they've been idle for a few seconds, or if they've been busy for too long. If a service worker has been terminated and an event occurs that would start it up, it will restart.

## Capabilities

> With a registered and active service worker, you have a thread with a completely different execution lifecycle than the main one on your PWA. However, by default, the service worker file itself has no behavior. It won't cache or serve any resources, as this has to be done by your code. You'll find out how  in the following chapters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a registered and active service worker, you have a thread with a completely different execution lifecycle than the main one on your PWA. However, by default, the service worker file itself has no behavior. It won't cache or serve any resources, as this has to be done by your code. You'll find out how in the following chapters.
```

> Service Worker's capabilities are not just for proxy or serving HTTP requests; other specs are available on top of it for other purposes, such as background code execution, web push notifications, and process payments. We'll discuss these additions in the [capabilities chapter](/learn/pwa/capabilities) chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Worker's capabilities are not just for proxy or serving HTTP requests; other features are available on top of it for other purposes, such as background code execution, web push notifications, and process payments. We'll discuss these additions in the [capabilities chapter](/learn/pwa/capabilities) chapter.
```

Reviewer: I'm not not assuming that all competent web developers know anything about specs.
